\subsection{Evaluation of Memrise}

Memrise\footnote{\url{http://www.memrise.com}} is a flashcard-based learning 
system. The cards make use of (often crowd sourced) mnemonics combined with 
spaced repetition (akin to Duolingo and Anki) to augment the learning 
experience. It is unique in part due to its openness regarding its techniques 
and its close ties with academic researchers, who are allowed to analysis its 
datasets.

Memrise itself suggests three basic techniques:\cite{memrise}

\begin{itemize}

\item \textbf{Elaborate encoding.} I.e., the construction of cognitive 
  structures of already known material that new knowledge might "attach" 
  itself to. E.g., taxonomies (like the colours red, white, blue) are easier 
  to remember than a random list (astronaut, velvet, cigar). To this end, 
  Memrise uses crowd sourcing (with machine-learning techniques) to suggest 
  "mems", which are the aforementioned cognitive structures to boost learning.

\item \textbf{Choreographed testing}, which test recall and comprehension. Memrise varies
  between simple one-off challenges ("casa = ?") and multiple-choice questions
  to keep things interesting.

\item \textbf{Scheduled reminders}, which is their implementation of spaced 
    learning.

\end{itemize}

Research around — or by — Memrise mostly revolves around the benefits of 
testing, error generation (vis-à-vis inerrant learning), and how spacing 
affects the efficacy of the learning programme.

Testing is the act of challenging retention while studying, which is 
beneficial as part of the learning process. There is no consensus as to why it 
works, but some explanations include that it increases the storage strength of 
memory, and that it generates additional cues that creates (potentially more 
efficient) routes through memory\cite[p.6]{potts2014benefit}.

Generation (with feedback) is an active form of learning, and requires the
student to complete something, for example a sentence ("Lisa is a \_\_\_"),
before getting to know the answer. This is contrasted to reading, where the
student absorbs textual material and definitions, and multiple choice, which
amongst other things tests the ability of the student to see how the different
alternatives relate to each other (finding the odd one out etc.).

Errant learning has been thought to be detrimental to learning as people
recall their errors to a greater extent than their correct
answers\cite{potts2014benefit}, but this research has mostly been done with
already memory-impaired populations, which might have different requirements.
Inerrant learning does not seem to be as effective as error generation: 
``\dots'' generating responses followed by feedback is helpful to memory 
even when many errors are generated, compared with inerrant studying without
generation\cite[p.54]{potts2014benefit}.

Generating errors may benefit vocabulary learning even when there are no 
established associations to the items in 
question\cite[p.54]{potts2014benefit}. While completing sentences appear to 
have the biggest advantage over only reading, other types of generation also 
improves test scores when compared to reading by 
itself\cite[p.73]{benassi2014applying}.

Several experiments have been designed to test assumptions regarding
these models. They are mostly language-orientated (a good fit for a 
programming language!), and might use techniques like archaic words (which are 
certain to be unknown for most test subjects) to provide a "clean slate" for 
testing comprehension and retention of definitions. Research shows that 
participations' perception of learning is influenced by error generation, and 
that participants seemingly perceive generate items as more difficult to 
learn, which may lead to participants putting in more effort to learn the more 
difficult items, which in turn may lead to higher 
retention\cite{potts2014benefit}.

\subsubsection{Expressiveness}

More or less any knowledge that needs to be internalised can fit within the
style of testing offered by Memrise. Users are allowed to create their own
courses, which may contain multimedia levels. For example, users may embed 
videos from Vine\footnote{\url{https://vine.co/}} inside ``mems'' to boost 
retention. 

\subsubsection{Ease of use}

Memrise offers an easy to use interface with a few, mostly obvious buttons. 
Flow doesn't seem to be problematic. Interactive modals guide the user through 
things like creating ``mems'' for their own courses and so on.

\subsubsection{Takeaway points}

\begin{itemize}
\item Generating (that is, having the student do something) is provably more
  efficient than either reading or quizzing.
\item We need to embrace generating errors as a way of learning, and give feedback
  as quickly as possible to promote retention and comprehension.
\end{itemize}

